design_guidelines.md, before:

# Design Guidelines
This document will cover the basic high level design guidelines for the project. They are intended to help designers and developers create clean and consistent designs that are understandable and implementable.

## Guidelines

### Solve problems first
Every aspect of a design must solve some problem. In order to do this, it is important to ensure that the problem that is being solved is clearly stated. Issues can arise when solutions are presented without a clear problem definition.

When designing a feature, always start with the problem definition, and then show how the solution solves the problem. This will make the project much more solid and sound in the long run. Clear problem definitions will help us know in the end if we have implemented a system correctly as designed.

### Consider all solutions
There will always be multiple ways to solve problems; we want to make sure that all of them are considered. If some solutions are clearly inferior, it is best to document why, so that other designers and developers can understand the choices made.

### Use the best solution for the project as a whole
The overall goal of design and development is to make the best project possible. To this end, when considering multiple solutions, do not discard solutions just because they are unfamiliar or someone "just doesn't like them."

In order for the project to be the best it can be, it needs the best solutions regardless of the source, as long as they meet the requirements.

### Basic solution requirements
All solutions must meet the following requirements in addition to specific ones needed by the module/component.

1. Solves the problem
2. Is maintainable
3. Is flexible

### Comment on designs
Just because a design is written does not mean it is set in stone. Comment on the design if you see problems; use the tools we have available. The entire point of a public design is to get feedback.

#### Respect comments added to your designs
People are going to comment on designs, so reasonable input must be respected. If a design is solid then it is easy to defend criticism. If the comments bring up valid points, refine the design.

#### Respect the final choices
If reasonable comments have been provided and the design has been finalized, perhaps even with compromises, respect the choice and try to understand the reasons why it was made. We do not want endless fights over features; sometimes we just have to pick a method.

### Users provide ideas; contributors provide implementations
Input from users and players is awesome; they have a wealth of information we need to tap. We should get ideas from users whenever possible, but we should only take the general idea, not specific implementations. Designers and developers must take an idea and break it down into a problem/solution scenario. This way we continue to pick the best solution to implement the idea (not just the one a user had).

### Get inspiration from everywhere
We all love BZFlag for one reason or another, and we are going to pull inspiration from it. BZFlag is not the only game that we can/should pull inspiration from. If other games or projects have good ideas, we should evaluate them as well. BZFlag is a game; if we are pulling ideas from games, we can use any game.

Commit message:

Re-wrote a section to clarify that we are not just "taking inspiration from" BZFlag, but trying to capture that same experience and then evolve and enhance it.

design_guidelines.md, after:

# Design Guidelines
This document will cover the basic high level design guidelines for the project. They are intended to help designers and developers create clean and consistent designs that are understandable and implementable.

## Guidelines

### Solve problems first
Every aspect of a design must solve some problem. In order to do this, it is important to ensure that the problem that is being solved is clearly stated. Issues can arise when solutions are presented without a clear problem definition.

When designing a feature, always start with the problem definition, and then show how the solution solves the problem. This will make the project much more solid and sound in the long run. Clear problem definitions will help us know in the end if we have implemented a system correctly as designed.

### Consider all solutions
There will always be multiple ways to solve problems; we want to make sure that all of them are considered. If some solutions are clearly inferior, it is best to document why, so that other designers and developers can understand the choices made.

### Use the best solution for the project as a whole
The overall goal of design and development is to make the best project possible. To this end, when considering multiple solutions, do not discard solutions just because they are unfamiliar or someone "just doesn't like them."

In order for the project to be the best it can be, it needs the best solutions regardless of the source, as long as they meet the requirements.

### Basic solution requirements
All solutions must meet the following requirements in addition to specific ones needed by the module/component.

1. Solves the problem
2. Is maintainable
3. Is flexible

### Comment on designs
Just because a design is written does not mean it is set in stone. Comment on the design if you see problems; use the tools we have available. The entire point of a public design is to get feedback.

#### Respect comments added to your designs
People are going to comment on designs, so reasonable input must be respected. If a design is solid then it is easy to defend criticism. If the comments bring up valid points, refine the design.

#### Respect the final choices
If reasonable comments have been provided and the design has been finalized, perhaps even with compromises, respect the choice and try to understand the reasons why it was made. We do not want endless fights over features; sometimes we just have to pick a method.

### Users provide ideas; contributors provide implementations
Input from users and players is awesome; they have a wealth of information we need to tap. We should get ideas from users whenever possible, but we should only take the general idea, not specific implementations. Designers and developers must take an idea and break it down into a problem/solution scenario. This way we continue to pick the best solution to implement the idea (not just the one a user had).

### Get inspiration from everywhere
We all love BZFlag for one reason or another, and we are going to try to capture that same gameplay concept, but also evolve it to bring new possibilities and new experiences, and keep doors open for even more enhancements in the future. We also want to evaluate features of other more modern games to gain inspiration for this project and to determine how we can create more universal appeal.
